The next step is then in the Mahayana teaching known as practicing on the bodhisattva.
Bodhichitta is now what we should move forward with.
We need refuge practices, we need refuge because we need refuge, we need refuge because we need
teaching.
We need teaching, we need friends and assistants to move forward and to discover our journey,
advancing our journey. We need that all. Therefore, we are going to keep that, as I said, in the
core of our heart.
Together, now we are going to levitating, igniting our levels.
Not that now we are going to think all the things. I am objecting refuge, I am going to make this
something special and myself.
But what I bought, others, others. Therefore, thinking about others then we don't know and develop
the bodhichitta.
What is bodhichitta and many of you know, again. But I am going to move, kind of like essence.
Therefore, we can observe that in the heart and we can carry and remind that again to each other,
whenever you know about each other.
Bodhichitta is simple, you see, it is love, it is compassion, it is wisdom, all is wisdom and
combined together.
And often the great master said, the compassion, focus by compare to all the beings.
Thinking of the sentence, all living beings, by compassion. And by wisdom, you are thinking of
enlightenment.
So that means, compassion, you look to the sentence beings, by wisdom, you look to discover your
nature.
Even more better, more yourself. Because we like to, that means what? Even more better.
Because we like to be very efficient compassion activities. Efficient compassion activity must be
guided by wisdom.
With all the wisdom, compassion could become kind of emotions and could be blocked.
Therefore, it is like guided. Compassion is guided by the wisdom. It is a smart compassion.
Smart compassion, intelligent compassion and practical compassion.
Therefore, it is guided by wisdom that compassion comes.
Compassion alone could be, as I said, could be blocked, you could be dug, could be become emotions
and handedness.
And even you start something very special, but then kind of like stopped there.
That is lack of the wisdom and a lack of how to take care of the compassion.
Compassion is so great, it is so important, so important, so special to bring joy and peace to all
the beings.
But that must be guided by wisdom.
Wisdom and compassion go by target, not by sight, by sight. Become target. Compassion is wisdom.
Wisdom is compassion. That is what we need to move forward.
And therefore, to start with this compassion, and what is the teaching said?
First is, known as always, poor, boundless. Poor, boundless.
Poor, boundless, when you speak of that, why is poor, boundless? You heard it many times.
But poor, boundless, if you go more kind of detail, more pacifically, there are three ways it is
boundless.
Optic is boundless, subject is boundless, and then the beneficial is boundless.
All, all the power is boundless. Therefore, it is called three different ways it is boundless.
Optic is boundless, where this compassion is going to touch.
The compassion is going to touch to all the beings.
The number of beings cannot be numbered, cannot be put in numbers in zeros.
It is beyond numbers. Therefore, it is countless.
So these countless beings, now our compassion will be also countless, to touch to all these beings.
So therefore, as object is boundless and countless, our, to match up that, to match up these beings
,
our attitude and openness of the heart is boundless and infinite.
Therefore, it is known as boundless, countless, inmeasurable.
Those all words are used to me. When you have matched up that qualities,
the magnitude and the power is gaining to yourself and benefit to the beings is also
measureless, boundless, and countless. Therefore, it is known as poor boundless.
This is again so special. This is the heart essence of the teaching of the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Often, Kenti Padheeramud said, this is true. This is the poor boundless and bodhic.
The teaching is one of his line's robes, Buddha's line's robes, loudly felt.
That means this line's robe cannot be overpowered by any other animals.
Everybody will have to follow that. That is because it is true. It is powerful.
Similarly, this love and compassion, the joy and the equanimity for the bodhic cata is true.
Nobody can again search, refute and treat this statement, treat this meaning.
Nobody, like logically, reasonably, or literally, no kind can refute.
Nobody can say love is bad, love and kind is bad. Nobody can say compassion is bad.
Nobody can say joy is bad. Nobody can say equanimity, the balance is bad.
Nobody can say it logically. Maybe in the kind of Dronma level,
can put it, refute that, oh, it's not good, not this and that things.
But at the reality level, no kind can refute this and defeat that.
Therefore, it is one of Buddha's line's robes. No great teachers in this universe
said it as this immensity, said it as Buddha's. Buddha is one of his extraordinary
messages. It's also true. Yes, Buddha said it because we follow. But it's true.
How important, how special, how wide, how impartial to reach our own sentiment,
not discriminate that group, this group, that group, this and that thing.
The comparison is pervasive. Love is pervasive. The joy is pervasive.
The balance is pervasive. Truly, you read, I read that meaning in the heart.
Truly, it's very uplifting, opening. It shatters all the ego clings.
Regimen to consult with the duality, publicate so many borders and left,
one after another in the different directions.
Kind of we have become that shadow completely. Truly, it's uplifting statement,
uplifting practices, uplifting great voice.
This is our luck, our fortunate that we connected to these great teachers.
How wonderful, how beautiful. And we have this, and we truly have this.
There's no difficult to bring the peace and happiness in this world.
And everybody has this peace, peace of what Buddha said.
Peace of this in their heart, ignited that. The peace,
the all, this is what they're talking in the world,
looking forward, it will become almost peaceful case.
Truly, it will. This is what's so important. And now, with this understanding,